{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf130
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25220\viewh14280\viewkind1
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Curriculum Vitae\
Vikash Kumar Mansinghka\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
Address:  77 Massachusetts Avenue, 46-4094A, Cambridge, MA 02139\
Phone:     617-501-1451\
Email:      vkm@mit.edu\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 EDUCATION\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
Ph.D., Computation, June 2009, MIT\
  Thesis: Natively Probabilistic Computation\
  Advisor: Joshua B. Tenenbaum\
  Committee: Harold Abelson, Tomaso Poggio, Thomas F. Knight Jr.\
\
M.Eng., Computer Science and Engineering, June 2009, MIT\
  Thesis: Nonparametric Bayesian Models for Supervised and Unsupervised Learning\
\
S.B., Computer Science and Engineering, June 2005, MIT\
\
S.B., Mathematics, June 2005, MIT\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 HONORS AND AWARDS\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
CVPR Best Paper (Honorable Mention), 2015, with T. Kulkarni, J. Tenenbaum, and P. Kohli.\
\
MIT George M. Sprowls Award for best doctoral thesis in computer science (2009)\
Nominated by MIT for ACM Doctoral Dissertation award (2009)\
Cognitive Science Society Computational Modeling Prize in Perception and Action (with N. Goodman and J. B. Tenenbaum; 2007)\
\
MIT Intelligence Initiative Fellowship\
National Science Foundation Graduate Fellow\
MIT Lincoln Laboratories Fellow\
MIT Presidential Scholar\
\
Technology Review Magazine TR35 Nominee (2011)\
\
Tau Beta Pi, Eta Kappa Nu, Phi Beta Kappa\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 EMPLOYMENT\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
2013 -- Present: Postdoctoral Research Scientist, MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory\
\
2015 \'97 Present: Co-founder and Chief Scientist, Empirical Systems Inc.\
\
2012 -- 2013: Postdoctoral Associate, Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.\
\
2007 -- 2012 : Co-founder, Navia Systems Inc. Acquired by Salesforce.com in November 2012.\
\
2007: Associate Engineer, StreamBase Systems, Inc (2007)\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 EXTERNAL POSITIONS HELD\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
Member of DARPA ISAT (Information Science and Technology) Study Group, 2010-2012.\
\
Editorial Board Member, Journal of Machine Learning Research, 2013 --- 2016.\
\
Editorial Board Member, Statistics and Computing, 2014 \'97 Present.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 BOOKS IN PREPARATION\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 A survey of probabilistic programming. Mansinghka, V. and Roy, D. (co-editors). Contracts for edited volume offered by CUP and MIT Press.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 JOURNAL MANUSCRIPTS IN PREPARATION\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 An introduction to probabilistic programming. Mansinghka, V., and Roy, D. [Review article in preparation for submission to JMLR.]\
\
VentureScript: a language for probabilistic modeling and interactive inference. Mansinghka, V., and Radul, A. [In preparation for submission to JMLR.]\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Speeding up inference for statistical probabilistic programs. Chen, Y., Ghahramani, Z., and Mansinghka, V. [In preparation for Statistics and Computation; preliminary version as arXiv:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1411.1690v2"}}{\fldrslt 1411.1690}}] \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
JOURNAL MANUSCRIPTS IN PRESS OR UNDER REVIEW\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 CrossCat: a fully Bayesian, nonparametric method for analyzing heterogeneous, high-dimensional data. Mansinghka, V., Shafto, P., Jonas, E., Petschulat, C., Gasner, M., and Tenenbaum, J. [Forthcoming, Journal of Machine Learning Research. Preprint available on arXiv:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1512.01272v1"}}{\fldrslt 1512.01272}}.]\
\
Variational particle inference. Saeedi, A., Kulkarni, T., Mansinghka, V., and Gershman, S. [In review at JMLR; preprint available on request.]
\b \
\

\b0 Probabilistic programming with Gaussian process memoization. Schaetle, U., Zinberg, B., Radul, A., and Mansinghka, V. [In review at JMLR; preprint available upon request.]\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 BayesDB: A probabilistic programming platform for querying the probable implications of data. Mansinghka, V., Baxter, J., Shafto, P., and Eaves, B. [In review at JMLR; preprint available on request.]\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
REFEREED JOURNAL PUBLICATIONS\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Reconciling intuitive physics and Newtonian mechanics for colliding objects. Sanborn, A., Mansinghka, V., and Griffiths, T.L. Psychological Review, 2013.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 A probabilistic model of cross-categorization. Shafto, P., Kemp, C., Mansinghka, V., Tenenbaum, J. B. Cognition, 2011.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
TECHNICAL REPORTS\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Building fast Bayesian computing machines out of intentionally stochastic, digital parts. Mansinghka, V., Jonas, E. [arXiv {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1402.4914v1"}}{\fldrslt 1402:4914}}, Computer Science - Artificial Intelligence]\
\
Stochastic Digital Circuits for Probabilistic Inference. Mansinghka, V., Jonas, E., Tenenbaum, J. B. MIT CSAIL Technical Report, 2008.
\b \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Venture: a higher-order probabilistic programming platform with programmable inference. Mansinghka, V., Selsam, D., Perov, Y. [arXiv {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1404.0099v1"}}{\fldrslt 1404:0099}} Computer Science - Artificial Intelligence], 2014. \

\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 REFEREED CONFERENCE AND WORKSHOP PUBLICATIONS\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Picture: an imperative probabilistic programming language for scene perception.  Kulkarni, T., Mansinghka, V.,  Kohli, P., Tenenbaum, J. CVPR 2015.
\b \
\

\b0 JUMP-Means: Small-Variance Asymptotics for Markov Jump Processes. Huggins, J., Narasimhan, K., Saeedi, A., and Mansinghka, V. ICML 2015.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Particle Gibbs with Ancestor Sampling for Probabilistic Programs, van de Meent, J., Yang, H.,   Mansinghka, V., and Wood, F. AISTATS 2015.
\b \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
A New Approach to Probabilistic Programming Inference, Wood, F., van de Meent, J., and Mansinghka, V. AISTATS 2014.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Automatic Inference for Inverting Software Simulators via Probabilistic Programming. Saeedi, A., Firoiu, V., Mansinghka, V. [AutoML workshop at ICML], 2014.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 ClusterCluster: Parallel Markov Chain Monte Carlo for Dirchlet Process Mixtures. Lovell, D., Malmaud, J., Adams, R., Mansinghka, V. [arXiv: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1304.2302v1"}}{\fldrslt 1304.2302}} Statistics - Machine Learning; first appeared in NIPS 2012 Workshop on Big Learning], 2013. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Markov Chain Algorithms: A Template for Building Future Robust Low Power Systems. Deka, B., Birklykke, A., Duwe, H., Mansinghka, V., Kumar, R. [Asilomar Conference on Signals, Systems, and Computers], 2013.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl393\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 Approximate Bayesian Image Interpretation using Generative Probabilistic Graphics Programs. Mansinghka, V., Kulkarni, T., Perov, Y., Tenenbaum, J. NIPS 2013 (Oral presentation).\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
When are probabilistic programs probably computationally tractable? Freer, C., Mansinghka, V., Roy, D. [NIPS 2010 Workshop on Monte Carlo Methods for Modern Applications.]\
\
A Bayesian Framework for Modeling Intuitive Dynamics. Sanborn, A., Mansinghka, V., Griffiths, T. L. Published in COGSCI 2009.\
\
Exact and Approximate Sampling by Systematic Stochastic Search. Mansinghka, V., Roy, D., Jonas, E., Tenenbaum, J. B. Published in AISTATS 2009. [Oral].\
\
Church: a universal language for generative models. Goodman, N. and Mansinghka, V., Roy, D., Bonawitz, K., Tenenbaum, J. B. Published in UAI 2008. [Oral].\
\
A stochastic programming perspective on nonparametric Bayes. Roy, Mansinghka, Goodman and Tenenbaum. ICML 2008 Nonparametric Bayes Workshop.
\b \

\b0 \
Learning grounded causal models. Goodman, N., Mansinghka, V., Tenenbaum, J. B. Published in COGSCI 2007 [Oral; winner of 2007 Cognitive Science Society Computational Modeling Prize for Perception and Action].\
\
Modeling human performance in statistical word segmentation.  Frank, M. C., Goldwater, S., Mansinghka, V., Griffiths, T., Tenenbaum, J. B. Published in COGSCI 2007.\
\
AClass: an online algorithm for generative classification. Mansinghka, V. Roy, D. Rifkin, R. Tenenbaum, J. B. Published in AISTATS 2007 [Poster].\
\
Learning annotated hierarchies from relational data. Roy, D., Kemp, C., Mansinghka, V. K., and Tenenbaum, J. B. Published in NIPS 2006 [Oral].\
\
Structured priors for structure learning. Mansinghka, V. K., Kemp, C., Tenenbaum, J. B., and Griffiths, T. L. (2006).  Proceedings of the Twenty-Second Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI 2006) [Oral].\
\
Learning cross-cutting systems of categories. Shafto, P. Kemp, C., Mansinghka, V., Gordon, M., and Tenenbaum, J. B. (2006). Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society [Poster].\
\
Intuitive Theories of Mind: A Rational Approach to False Belief. Goodman, N., Baker, C., Bonawitz-Baraff, E., Mansinghka, V., Gopnik, A., Wellman, H., Shulz, L., Tenenbaum, J. B. Published in COGSCI 2006.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 THESES\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
Natively Probabilistic Computation. Mansinghka, V. MIT Doctoral dissertation. 2009. [Winner, 2009 George M. Sprowls award for best MIT computer science dissertation.]\
\
Nonparametric Bayesian Models for Supervised and Unsupervised Learning. Mansinghka, V. MIT Masters thesis. 2009.\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 TEACHING EXPERIENCE:\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Teaching Assistant, MIT: Computational Cognitive Science (2006, 2007), Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (head, 2004), Applied Parallel Computing (2005).\
\
Co-founder, MIT Tau Beta Pi Teaching Program. Co-teacher and course designer for Linear Algebra and Software Engineering courses in IAP 2004, 2005, 2006.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 SUPERVISORY EXPERIENCE\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 PhD: \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Owain Evans (2014 \'97 2015)\
Vlad Firoiu (2014 \'97 2015)\
Ardavan Saeedi* (2012 \'97 2014)\
Tejas Kulkarni* (2012 \'97 present)\
Marco Cusamo-Towner (2015 \'97 present)\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 MEng:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Benjamin Zinberg (2014-2015); next: Software engineer, Google Indexing team\
Anthony Lu (2013 \'97 present)
\b \

\b0 Jay Baxter* (2012 --- 2014); next: data scientist at Twitter\
Jeffrey Wu* (2011-2012); next: founding engineer at Terminal.com\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Undergraduate/Visitor:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Daniel Selsam (2013-2014); next: PhD student in CS at Stanford\
Vlad Firoiu* (2013 --- 2014); next: PhD student in EECS at MIT\
Yura Perov* (2012 --- 2013); next: PhD student in CS at Stanford\
Zack Drach* (2013)\
\
* indicates de facto supervision with Prof. Joshua Tenenbaum as formal supervisor\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 RESEARCH GRANTS, CONTRACTS AND GIFTS\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 IARPA Seedling on Automating Statistical Model Discovery. 2015-2016, $425,000, PI, subcontractors Cambridge University and Harvard University.
\b \

\b0 \
DARPA Probabilistic Programming for Advanced Machine Learning Program,  \'93Venture: \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A General Purpose Probabilistic Programming Platform w/Efficient Stochastic Inference\'94, \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 2013 - 2017, $6,275,000, PI, subcontractors Oxford University, Continuum Analytics, and Cambridge University.\
\
ONR Cognitive Science Program, "Probabilistic Programming and Computational Cognitive Science", 2013-2016. $550,000 (co-PI with Joshua B. Tenenbaum.)\
\
ARO Network Sciente Program. \'93Fundamental Theory and Parallelization for Probabilistic Programming\'94, 2013-2016. $500,000 (co-PI with Joshua B. Tenenbaum.)\
\
DARPA MTO Seedling Grant. "Stochastic Computing Machines enabled by DNA self-assembly." with Duke University, 2013---2016. MIT portion ~$125,000 per year.\
\
DARPA XDATA "Big Data Analytics" Program. November 2011 --- 2014. MIT portion ~$500,000.\
\
IR-Spark: IR/RF Fusion with Stochastic Inference, Probabilistic Programming and Robust Kinematic Features. Missile Defense Agency, SBIR Phase I. MIT Portion $50,000.\
\
Analog Devices/Lyric Labs. Gift to establish the Probabilistic Computing Research Fund. $70,000.\
\
Google "Rethinking AI" Project. Feb. 2012 --- Feb. 2014. $262,000 (with Joshua Tenenbaum)\
\
Hyperfast Probabilistic Inference. DARPA PerSEAS program; Navia PI under Kitware Team on Phase I. Total initial Navia/Kitware subcontract amount of $963,000 for 2010-2011; ~$87K used.\
\
Natively Probabilistic Computation. DARPA Seedling Grant; Navia PI. Total initial subcontract amount of $246,000 for 2010.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 U.S. PATENT APPLICATIONS\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
Method and Apparatus for Performing Probabilistic Inference and Providing Related Solution Methods. Co-inventor with K. Bonawitz. Original USPTO application number 60991578.\
\
Combinational stochastic logic. Co-inventor with E. Jonas. Original USPTO application number 61033540.\
\
Configurable circuitry for solving stochastic problems. Co-inventor with E. Jonas. Original USPTO application number 61307015.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 SERVICE\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Co-organizer, Workshop on Probabilistic Programming: Principles and Applications, Neural Information Processing Systems Conference, Montreal, CA, December 2014\
\
Co-organizer, Workshop on Probabilistic Programming: Foundations and Applications, Neural Information Processing Systems Conference, South Lake Tahoe, Nevada, December 2012\
\
Co-organizer, Workshop on Probabilistic Programming: Universal Languages, Inference and Applications, Neural Information Processing Systems conference, Whistler, B.C., Canada, December 2008\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Reviewer (ad-hoc) for Communications of the Association for Computing Machinery, Machine Learning (journal), ACM Transactions on Autonomous and Adaptive Systems.\
\
Reviewer, NIPS 2006, NIPS 2007, NIPS 2008 (top reviewer award), NIPS 2009, NIPS 2010, UAI 2010.\
\
Program Committee Member\
ICML (2007, 2010, 2012)\
IJCAI (2009)\
AISTATS (2009, 2010, 2011, 2012)\
UAI (2011, 2012, 2013)\
\
Grant reviewing for the National Science Foundation.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 SELECTED INVITED TALKS\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 NIPS Workshop on Black-box Learning and Inference. Montreal, 12/2015.\
Harvard Intelligent Probabilistic Systems Group Seminar, 11/2015.\
Future of Programming Workshop at Strange Loop, St. Louis, MO, 9/2015.\
Data, Learning, and Inference Workshop on Probabilistic Numerics. La Palma, 4/2015\
Data, Learning, and Inference Workshop on Probabilistic Programming. La Palma, 4/2015\
Dagstuhl Workshop on Probabilistic Programming, 4/2015.\
MIT Sloan Symposium on Minds, Machines, and Management. Vienna, 3/2015.\
Big Data Workshop, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, 1/2015.\
\
Invited Tutorial on Probabilistic Programming at ICML, Beijing, 6/2014.\
Approximate Computing Workshop at PLDI 2014, Edinburgh, 6/2014.\
Columbia University, Data Science Institute Colloquium, 2/2014.\
Carnegie Mellon University, Philosophy Department Colloquium, 2/2014.\
\
Microsoft Machine Learning Summit, Paris, France, 4/2013.\
Architecture, Systems, Programming Languages and Operating Systems 2013, Houston, TX, 3/2013.\
Columbia University, 3/2013.\
DARPA Workshop on Probabilistic Programming, Menlo Park, CA, 2/2013.\
\
Lyric Labs at Analog Devices, Cambridge, MA, 10/2012.\
DeepMind, Inc, Cambridge, MA, 10/2012.\
DARPA XDATA Program Kickoff, Arlington, VA, 11/2012.\
DARPA Workshop on Unconventional Computing Systems for Real-time Sensor Data Analysis, Arlington, VA 3/2012.\
Computational and Biological Learning Lab, Cambridge University, UK, 2/2012.\
\
Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK, 11/2011. [Three talk series.]\
MIT Computational Cognitive Science Lab Seminar, Cambridge, MA, 9/2011.\
D. E. Shaw Research, New York, NY, 9/2011.\
BBN Technologies SDP Computer Vision Seminar Series, Cambridge, MA, 9/2011.\
Google. Mountain View, CA, 9/2011.\
Yahoo! Labs. Sunnyvale, CA, 9/2011.\
Probabilistic Computing Machines for Artificial Intelligence. MIT 150 Symposium on Brains, Minds and Machines; panel on Intelligence in the Marketplace. Cambridge, MA, 5/2011.\
Yelp. San Francisco, CA, 1/2011.\
\
Shell, Houston, TX, 1/2010.\
Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Biostatistics Colloquium, Boston, MA, 6/2010.\
Willow Garage, Mountain View, CA, 8/2010.\
LSU Computer Science Colloquium, Baton Rouge, LA 10/2010.\
CommerceNet/CollabRx Seminar, Palo Alto, CA, 10/2010.\
University of Maryland Computer Science Department, College Park, MD 11/2010.\
Redwood Center for Theoretical Neuroscience, Berkeley, CA 11/2010.\
NIPS 2010 Workshop on Monte Carlo Methods in Modern Applications, Whistler, Canada 12/2010.\
\
Harvard, Cambridge, MA 10/2009.\
D. E. Shaw Research, New York, NY 10/2009. \
Northeastern University, Boston, MA 10/2009. \
Google, Mountain View, CA 12/2009.\
University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Amherst, MA 10/2008.\
NTT Communication Science Laboratories, Nara, Japan 3/2008.\
BAE Systems, Cambridge, MA 1/29/2008.\
NIPS Statistical Network Modeling Workshop, Whistler, Canada 12/2007.\
MIT Stochastic Systems Group Seminar, Cambridge, MA 3/2007.}